Added example code and docs for ai-access-control-example (#1)
uma-victor1/pydantic-ai: docs/examples/secure-ai-agent.md

# Secure AI Access Control with PydanticAI

This example demonstrates how to implement a secure financial advisor agent using PydanticAI's structured response system and Permit.io permission checks.

## The Challenge

In this financial agent example, we face two key challenges:

1. **Unstructured AI Responses**: Without proper structure, AI outputs can be unpredictable and difficult to validate. This is especially problematic in regulated domains like finance where you need to:

   - Verify if a response contains financial advice
   - Add required disclaimers
   - Prevent unauthorized advice

2. **Complex Permission Logic**: Traditional approaches to permission checks look like this:

```python
def check_user_access(user_id: str, request: dict) -> bool:
    # Complex dictionary parsing
    if request.get('type') == 'financial_advice':
        if request.get('opted_for_ai_advice'):
            # More nested checks...
            pass
    return False
```

> Checking user permissions in this way is error-prone, hard to maintain, and lacks type-safe validation. There is a better way to address these challenges using PydanticAI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checking user permissions in this way is error-prone, hard to maintain, and lacks type-safe validation.

In this example, we will use Permit.io—a fine-grained authorization platform—to externalize the configuration of the policies required for our AI applications and minimize configuration errors. Then, we will use the Permit Python SDK with PydanticAI to enforce these policies inside our AI application, making them easy to enforce and audit.

PydanticAI's structured approach to AI applications with Permit SDK will provide us with precise access control where traditional coding approaches fail.
```

## The PydanticAI Advantage

PydanticAI enables us to define structured types for our entire AI interaction flow, transforming this complexity into a structured, type-safe system:

With our financial agent set up using PydanticAI, we can create function tools for secure AI access control in our application. We'll create two tools: one for validating user permissions to receive AI-generated advice and another for checking if the AI model's response contains financial advice. For handling our financial agent user permissions, we leverage Permit.io to create and enforce fine-grained permissions in our AI system.

> ## Demo

Reviewer 2: We should add a section explaining what this example does and how.
E.g. how permissions are validated and how structured responses are handled

Reviewer: @uma-victor1, please add two code snippets with a short explanation on each:
- Transform structured prompt to check function call
- Check function in a tool that enforce permissions

Watch how PydanticAI ensures secure financial advice:

<a href="https://imgur.com/MFNGtDV"><img src="https://i.imgur.com/MFNGtDV.gif" title="source: imgur.com" /></a>

## Running the Example

```bash
python/uv-run -m pydantic_ai_examples.secure-ai-agent
```

> 

Reviewer 2: What about how the policy is setup in Permit?

Reviewer: @uma-victor1 - please add a short section that shows a screenshot of the whole policy configured + textual description of the policy.

To help people understanding the configuration steps better, include links to our walkthroughs guides in the docs (if and where needed)
